So in this section,
I want to think about,
what does it cost to go to
this crowdfunding market?
What it cost from the
entrepreneur's point of view,
and particularly, what does it
cost from the investor's
point of view?
So first from
the entrepreneur's point
of view, you think about,
what am I talking about
when I think about,
going into this market
and raising up to
a million bucks, right?
So anytime you do an offering,
even with the reduced demands
on this market relative
to the traditional IPO,
you're still talking about
some considerable
professional time
you're going to have to pay for.
While it's you can't really
put an exact number on it.
If you look around
people generally
think of this as
being maybe about,
100 hours of lawyer time
and accountant time.
So it's there about.
So let's use the number
100, all right.
So think about that's
just like one lawyer,
and one accountant putting
in one longish week,
there you go, you've just
made your way to
a 100 hours, right?
So it's not really at
all a crazy amount of
time to work on your offering.
So 100 hours, if they're charging
you 500 bucks in hour total,
and that's really probably
what you're thinking of,
something like 500 bucks an hour.
Now, you're talking
about $50,000.
You just spent $50,000
just on the professionals,
just to go out there
and list your offering and
hopefully people will invest.
So it's 50,000 bucks.
Now, think about it.
If you're raising
a million bucks which
is all you can raise max,
that is five percent, right?
So 50,000 bucks,
five percent of a million.
So you're spending off
the top five percent
of the million bucks.
So minimum professional
costs of like five percent,
and then on top of that,
on top of the money you're paying
out to those professionals,
you also pay the Internet portal
that you list on, right?
These guys that's how
do they make money?
You know their intermediating
you're offering,
but then they're going
to take a piece of it.
There was an SEC study
that came out in
early 2017 looking at all
of the Title III offerings,
from the first in May 2016
through the end of 2016,
and they found a median fee
of five percent.
If you look at
the Wefunder portal,
which is the most active
where they document is
the most active of
the Title III Portals,
they'll tell you that they charge
a fee of up to seven percent.
So you've got
at least five percent
of professional costs
that you're paying,
and now you're paying
median five percent,
could be higher, could be
seven percent to the portal.
Also for the listing, of course,
that's going to be
proportional to how much
you actually bring in,
but you're talking
about absolute minimum,
10 percent out the window,
in costs to raise this money.
So just bear that in mind.
That doesn't cost even add in,
just the cost of
the campaign itself, right?
You're going to make a video.
There's going to be other
advertising material you
got to put together.
There's all this expensive
your own time that you're
dedicating to this offering,
as opposed to actually
working on your startup,
and time everyone else involved.
So it's expensive.
This is a lot of just sort of,
just effort, hours, dollars,
that you are putting
into this offering.
So that's expensive.
But now let's look
it from the point of
view of the investors.
If you are thinking of
investing in this space.
So let's just think of this.
Let's work through a little
simple example, just to get,
to once again just a back
of the envelope sense of
what it costs to invest
in crowdfunding.
So let's say you make a
100,000. Make a 100,000 bucks.
So I just told you that if
you make a 100,000 bucks,
you get to invest
10 percent of that in
crowdfunding over a year.
So you've got 10,000
bucks to play
with in investing
in crowdfunding.
So let's say like
most investors you think well,
I'm not going to
put it all in one,
I'm going to spread it
around a little bit.
So I think I'm going
to take my 10,000,
I'm going to divide
that five ways.
I expect I'm going make five
$2,000 investments over
the course of the year.
So I'm just going to
watch the webpages,
and you'll see the offerings
cross the screen,
and then once in a while,
I'm going to see something,
that sounds like a possibility.
Then I'm going to check it out,
and if it checks out,
then Then they're
going to get one
of my $2,000 investments.
By the way, just looking
at the Wefunder page,
yesterday as I was
putting this together,
and what did I see?
Well, I saw here they list,
they headline the ones
that are getting
a lot of attraction.
So here's the first
ones that I saw.
I just give you a sense of
what you're looking at.
So I saw Mister B& B,
that was the first one.
Is described themselves as
the largest gay travel
community in the world.
So that's how you
can invest in it.
In this sort of travel service.
There's one called Liquidpiston.
Where they say they're developing
a new internal combustion engine.
Then there's one called
Medford Brewing Company.
What do they do?
Well, they make beer.
They've won some awards.
Then there's MySwimPro.
What's MySwimPro?
Well, this is an app that you
have on your Apple watch,
that you have on
you while you swim.
It gives you feedback,
and I guess optimizes
your swimming.
So this is, you see
things like that,
and one of those might say,
okay, all right, I can see that.
Then you think, "Well, okay,
should they get my
2,000 bucks or not? "
So you're at that point.
You finally see one.
Yes, I think I sense
some potential here.
But like any other investor
I feel like I have
to check it out.
So let's think about
checking it out,
and what that would cost you.
So you're going to check it out,
and so you're going
to be spending
some time looking at this,
figuring out, doing
your diligence,
is this really
a positive NPV way to
spend your money as we would say
here in our finance
classes at Wharton?
So you got to check it out,
this can take you some time.
What's it going to cost you?
Well, to ballpark,
what it's going to
cost you. Let's think
of it this way.
So we assume that you made
a 100,000 bucks a year,
100,000 bucks a year,
that's about 50 bucks an
hour that you're making.
So let's think about billing,
you billing your own time
at 50 bucks an hour,
since that's what you make.
Let's say you've picked
something that you have
some comfort with already.
If you're thinking
about that brewery,
then you like beer
and maybe you've made
your own beer at some point,
you've source beer ingredients,
maybe you have some experience
in the restaurant world,
whatever you got,
you have some base
of knowledge you're building on.
So let's say it's not
going to take you
that long to check it out.
So how about one day?
This will take you one-day,
one workday, instead
of doing any work,
instead of going
outside, whatever it is,
you're just going to stay in,
spend one workday
checking this out.
So one workday, so
about eight hours,
eight hours 50 bucks an hour,
you're talking about
a 400 bucks, right?
Eight times 50 is 400 bucks.
So it's going to
cost you 400 bucks.
Sort of, maybe not
cash out of your pocket
because you just sort of,
you're talking about
your own time here,
but about 400 bucks
opportunity costs of
checking this out.
So you spend 400 bucks and
then there's some chance
at the end of that,
that it will check out
and you will invest.
What's the chance that
it will check out?
Well, of course, you
don't really know for
sure what's the chances
it's going to check out.
But let's just say,
just so we can
keep going with our back of
the envelope calculation.
Let's say you put up
a 50 percent chance,
that at the end of the day
that whatever you
learn during that day,
is going to tell you,
go ahead, go ahead and do it.
It's worth it. So if
you think about it,
if you're spending 400 bucks to
checkout an investment
of 2,000 bucks.
Then it's only a half chance
that you're actually
going to make
the investment once you've
done your homework.
If you think about it,
the expected profit
on this investment,
the expected return on
that 2,000 bucks over
and above whatever
else you could have done
with that 2,000 bucks
is going to have to
be 800 bucks, right?
Because, you know,
you're spending $400,
it's only a half chance you're
going to make the investments.
So conditional on
making the investment,
you'd have to expect ex-ante,
but that's going to be
at least 800 bucks to offset
the 400 that you are
spending whether you end
up investing or not.
Okay, so you think about it.
I could take that 2,000 bucks,
just put it in the market.
As I could've done
that, and that's
basically no transactions costs
at all, just put in the market.
So this has got to be
800 bucks over and
above what I would
have made I'm just
putting in the market,
because 800 bucks and
2,000 is 40 percent.
We're not saying you need
to make that 40 percent
all in one year,
but you need to think
of that 40 percent
above market return as
eventually happening over
the course of your investment.
I don't know. Does
that sound realistic?
That after a day
of your scrutiny,
that the conditional
expected return,
conditional of
surviving a one day
of scrutiny for you is that high,
not only as it's positive
but it's that positive.
Bear in mind, if the chance
that the company survives
your scrutiny is
less than a half,
then the conditional profit,
conditional on
passing your scrutiny
is going to have to be
even higher than that 800 bucks.
So as that probability goes
down and down and down,
of the company actually surviving
your screen, of course,
eventually gets to the point
where it's just not worth it to
spend 400 bucks because
they're doing the scrutiny,
because the chance that
the expected profit is so high,
as to justify that 400 bucks
as the probability
goes down, down,
down, is going to start
to being ridiculous.
So that's just not going,
that's just not realistic,
that this spending of
400 bucks is going to pay off.
Okay, so an alternative
would be, well,
don't make so costly
in investment,
in diligence, to check
out a $2,000 investment.
Don't spend all that money,
just rely instead
on your own sense,
that you're going to stick to
something that you know
a whole lot about.
I'll invest in a brewery
but only if I really know
a lot about breweries.
I really think that
just by reading
the description and just
doing a small amount of work,
I can figure out if this is
a positive investment or not.
Don't invest in that new
combustion engine unless
you're an auto mechanic
or someone who
really knows about
internal combustion engines.
Don't even bother going
there unless you really
know a lot so much that you
can make this kind of
investment without making
a big expensive commitment
of your own time.
Okay, so you could do that.
You can certainly invest
that way if you want to,
but I think it's worth
asking yourself.
Do you really think that
the expected return on that is
going to be positive? Do
you really think that?
Could be, but bear in mind
that there's a couple of
headwinds to worry about here.
So number one, when you
invest in the public markets,
if I want to invest in Tesla.
I want to invest in Tesla.
Well, the price of
Tesla in the public markets
is at a market price.
It is an equilibrium where
supply and demand meet,
people are treating
Tesla all the time,
people who are bearish on Tesla,
people who are bullish on Tesla,
people can short sell,
people can buy it.
All those pressures up and
down meet at this market price.
So there's a sense in which it is
the product of
all these market pressures.
It's given us this price.
Whereas, if I'm looking at
this crowdfunding site,
where there's a price there,
that's not a market price.
That's just what they're asking.
It's not the equilibrium result
of pressures from people who
are positive or negative.
It's just the number
that they came up with.
So I don't have
that fall back that you
have in the public markets,
that even if I don't
know what I'm doing,
if I don't buy Tesla,
I don't really know about
all those product lines
that Tesla produces.
I could really not know
anything about the business,
and yet I'm paying a price
that because the market
price is a sense in
which I'm not getting ripped off.
This is a price
that in some sense,
the market has agreed,
is the right price for Tesla.
So that's not what's
happening when I'm
investing in this private market.
I'm just paying the price
as they quoted.
It doesn't make sense or not.
Well, I don't know.
I just need to
figure that out myself.
Then also bear in
mind, in crowdfunding,
you have to keep asking yourself,
"Is crowdfunding like a last
resort for these companies?"
Or put it another way,
"If I were them,
is this the first place I
would look for funding?"
Probably, it isn't
the first place I would look.
Probably, the first place
would be family and friends.
Then if I can't raise
money from family and
friends, they're tapped out.
I just don't have
wealthy family or friends.
So that's not really an option.
Well, now I want to go,
might go to a bank.
I might see if there's
a venture capitalist
I can get interested in this.
So I would go those routes,
go into the crowdfunding site,
and all those expenses that we
talked about are going
to crowdfunding.
Well, that's it. In many cases,
it maybe hard to believe
that will be
the first place I go.
So there's a sense in which this,
what you see in
the crowdfunding site in
many cases, is picked over.
These are some extent
the companies
that couldn't be
funded some other way,
and if that's the case,
then that's potential
concern point
for you as an investor.
So really, if you
think that's already been
picked over like that,
that could be such a high
concern that you'd say, "Well,
look, I'm just not going to put
my money in this unless I can
really believe a story in
which this isn't
the last resort."
So that's where you would
be asking yourself this,
"Why might crowdfunding
not be a last resort?"
Well, one story that
you'll hear and you
might just ask yourself
does this apply in
this case or not,
is that I'm going to
the crowdfunding market
as a proof of concept.
I'm going to
the crowdfunding market
before going to the
venture capitalists,
so I can show them look
at the potential demand is
going to be for my product.
I have the Gaye Travel Club,
so I think I
could make the case to
the venture capitalists,
but I bet I can get
a better deal if I can first
go to the Wefunder,
see what I get for
investment there,
and then I can go to the
venture capitalists again.
I can say, "See," and probably
that travel club is
going to do that
because they see they
were the top listed one.
Wefunder, they're probably
doing quite well,
and that probably
isn't asset for them.
Now, then go to
venture capitalists.
So there you can see
there's a very plausible story
in which this is
not a last resort financing,
or it can also be
that similar idea.
I go to the Crowdfunder site in
order to get shareholders
who will then be customers.
So very often, people are
shareholders and company
will tilt towards
patronizing that company.
I experienced it's
an extreme version of this.
When I was a kid, I remember
our stove stopped working,
and we were talking
in our family, "Well,
maybe we should buy a GE stove
to replace it," because
we owned shares in GE.
We didn't own many but we
own some shares in GE.
I remember thinking
at the time, "Geez,
I don't think a whole lot
of this is going to
come back to us
through our shares,"
but we did buy
a GE stove which then didn't
really work that well.
But that was an example there
of just shareholders
becoming customers.
Well, that's going to
be towards much more
meaningful in the context
of crowdfunding.
You think about the brewery,
that I'm a customer,
I buy shares in the brewery,
and now I go to a bar.
They've got that beer.
Yeah, I'm buying it.
I'm going to buy that.
Hey, this is my company.
I buy it for my friends.
"Hey, why don't try some of
my beer and see what you think."
So there's another reason why
I might go to crowdfunding
first before going into
the venture capitalist,
saying, "Look, I've
got these guys
who were, they've bought in.
They're going to be
customers and evangelist
for the product."
So if you can convince yourself
that the story like that,
that's a play here,
then that might give you
some comfort that this
isn't just the picked
over leaving from
the more professional part
of the finance industry.
This is in fact a prologue
to going there,
and that could be a situation
where we're investing could
make some positive sense.
Okay, so just to summarize here,
I think the main thing
you see is that
it's hard to justify,
just as a
back-of-the-envelope sense,
making much of an effort
to check out a
crowdfunding investment.
The limits are just
so low that you don't
have to put too
much of a value on
your time to get to
the point where, "Geez,
I just cannot believe that
cost could be justified in
the actual prospects of
the company going forward,"
but it could be
another story at work
where crowdfunding is serving
a purpose that's then going
to play a role
later when the company
approaches such investors later.
In that case, it's
a more positive story
for getting involved in
the company and
maybe a better prognosis
for profits in the future.